Algorithms+Data Structure
  The enhancement that was chosen was to alter/make a client and server program using Serial byte data between the Raspberry Pi and my local computer. The original artifact was a part of the Thermostat.py project that communicated the temperature status to a local server running on the Pi. 
  I selected a client/server section of the application mainly to get more practice in learning about networking. This is especially so with using bare bones libraries like socket in Python. Adding a networking block in the program allows me to use the data gathered from the robot. This opens up more skills to gain, such as understanding type conversion more and learning about network protocols. The main reason for the project itself is to connect this to the Turtle drawing program. The server side contains the Turtle program to draw the actions of the robot. Currently the turtle does not draw, but the server and client work and communicate. 
   After learning the Pi has an on-board wifi chip and the case of making this project a mobile robot, I have decided to pivot to using simple sockets between the two computers. This was not the intention at the beginning and not all of the main functions are complete within the rolly.py file. There were some hiccups in the physical parts such as the original hobby motors not having enough power to move the weight of the robot without extensive work on gearing the motors. I simply do not have the time for it, and ended up purchasing gearbox motors that can handle it. The second problem was the driving chip to control the motors. The chip ended up burning out and honestly I am not sure why. Reviews I have read online state that it is a common flaw with that specific chip. That occurred Saturday. With the time I had left I worked on the code I could. I think in terms of innovation I have completed that outcome for this section because after reading documentation and examples of StateMachine, there are many ways to go about making it work.
  Stated above were a few of the challenges faced, but the coding in this instance was pretty difficult. It looks simple looking at it now, but thinking about how the robot should behave and react is different compared to putting it in code. I kept experiencing soft locks where the sensor would keep turning even though the distance it was reading was well beyond the threshold. This happened mainly within the state of where it has found an obstacle in front. Once the obstacle is seen, the sweeping state begins and the sensor reads in left and right directions. Even though the readings on both sides were above the threshold it did not leave the sweeping state. To fix this I just set the current distance to the max between left and right, which did kick it back into the full cycle. Right now it is a temporary fix until I can implement a moving backwards function and separate the moving state to moving forwards or backwards. At first I also implemented the bot movements and logic into main, which quickly reverted back into the class itself. Main is going to be solely used for the client server communication and only some logic if necessary for the bot. Overall I think I have made a pretty decent headway into completing this project aside from physical limitations. I have found this is a much more complex project, but it is enjoyable in mixing disciplines. On the data structure side, it is a simple matter of making sure of type conversions and flooring the distance. I would say that is what I need to work on the most from this week. A lot of my time was spent working on the state algorithm and movements, getting physical parts to work, wiring and rewiring the board. By no means a perfect week, but data structures are the simplest task in this project that I can complete in the coming week. 
