Database Enhancement
  There was no original artifact for this enhancement. No previous project seemed to fit the bill in how I wanted the database to work in this project. The database should be lightweight, with only a few needed functions. The modeling for previous projects also would not make sense for the current project due to becoming too complex for saving only a few values. Because of this, this is from the ground up enhancement/creation. The database used is Redis, which is and is not an actual database schema. The basis of redis is to only have objects stored mainly in RAM and write to the disk occasionally if wanted or necessary.
  I decided to create this enhancement from scratch because the whole project is almost completely from scratch. The previous enhancements did have some conceptual aspect to work off of, but this is a new component to the project. Essentially this database is a single Python file that contains a few methods to create, delete, and read records. There is no update involved in this to maintain simplicity with the system, but possibly be implemented in the future. Using Redis was a good choice instead of an SQL schema or MongoDB. Mainly it is because of performance and space. MongoDB would have been the alternative choice because of the document design you can do with it, but Redis already does this as well within basic structures and little overhead on storage.
  The original plan for the database was to store mapping routes on objects from the echo sensor, but now it is more of a holder for paths of travel from the robot class. The structure is a key:value pair capable of having “nested” values via formatted strings. In this respect I have completed the task I had in mind, but there is still much to do. 

  I have met the outcome of using standard techniques in implementing the database by creating a class to contain the basic functions necessary. The main database functions used are create and read. Delete and update are almost unnecessary in this instance because of how the interface is with the robot. Anything that isn’t needed can be plain removed by console. But, the read and create are finished and operate with a separation from the main file which is a best practice of separation of concerns. The data itself is only a few floats and integers that are fed to the server in intervals of steps taken by the robot, which the server does not need any more information than that. More work is needed to clean up the code a little bit, but the fundamentals are there.
  As always with a project, learning new frameworks is a grinding process. I was constantly rereading documentation and dealing with errors in setting up the data in the creation side of the records for Redis. It is actually very simple but sometimes when these things are deceptively easy, they can be tough at times. That was the main challenge encountered and it has been overcome. There’s plenty more to learn from using Redis, but I do not know if any more is strictly necessary in this project. Any more work will be a combination of the algorithm of pathfinding and altering how the data is added. I did learn that database work is especially difficult at first, but it is one of those things where it needs to be hammered into the brain.
